Supplementary Table S1. Statistics for BCFtools. The number of RES was obtained individually for each sample by removing RES present in the HEK293T cell line. The average number of RES for each condition and replicate is reported for different minor allele frequency threshold values.

Supplementary Table S2. Statistics for RED-ML. The number of RES was obtained individually for each sample by removing RES present in the HEK293T cell line. The average number of RES for each condition and replicate is reported for different values for the detection threshold.

Supplementary Table S3. Statistics for REDItools2. The number of RES was obtained individually for each sample by removing RES present in the HEK293T cell line. The average number of RES for each condition and replicate is reported for different numbers of supporting reads.

Supplementary Table S4. Statistics for SPRINT. The number of RES was obtained individually for each sample by removing RES present in the HEK293T cell line. The average number of RES for each condition and replicate is reported for different numbers of supporting reads.

Supplementary Table S5. Statistics for JACUSA2. The number of RES was obtained by merging replicates into one sample for the two conditions (i.e., WT and ADAR1-KO). Only RES present in the three replicates and not present in the HEK293T cell line are reported for different numbers of supporting reads.

Supplementary Figure S1.  Statistics for BCFtools. For each condition replicate samples (n = 3) were processed individually keeping RNA editing sites (RES) absent in the HEK293T cell line. The average and the standard error of the mean are reported for each one of the measurements included: A) and B) average number (#) of total RES; C) and D) average percentage (%) of RES in REDIportal; E) and F) average percentage of RES in Alu regions.  Different threshold values for the minor allele frequency (MAF) were chosen as shown above.

Supplementary Figure S2. Statistics for RED-ML. For each condition, replicate samples (n = 3) were processed individually keeping RNA editing sites (RES) absent in the HEK293T cell line. The average and standard error of the mean are reported for each one of the measurements included: A) and B) average number (#) of total RES; C) and D) average percentage (%) of RES in REDIportal; and E) and F) average percentage of RES in Alu.   Different values for the detection threshold were chosen as shown above.

Supplementary Figure S3. Statistics for REDItools2. For each condition, replicate samples (n = 3) were processed individually keeping RNA editing sites (RES) absent in the HEK293T cell line. The average and standard error of the mean are reported for each one of the measurements included: A) and B) average number (#) of total RES; C) and D) average percentage (%) of RES in REDIportal; E) and F) average percentage of RES in Alu regions. Different threshold values for the number of supporting reads were chosen as shown above.

Supplementary Figure S4. Statistics for SPRINT. For each condition, replicate samples (n = 3) were processed individually keeping RNA editing sites (RES) absent in the HEK293T cell line. The average and standard error of the mean are reported for each one of the measurements included: A) and B) average number (#) of total RES; C) and D) average percentage (%) of RES in REDIportal; E) and F) average percentage of RES in Alu regions.  Different threshold values for the number of supporting reads were chosen as shown above.

Supplementary Figure S5. Statistics for JACUSA2. For each condition, replicate samples (n = 3) were merged into one sample excluding RNA editing sites (RES) not present in the three replicates and present in the HEK293T cell line. Different measurements are reported: A) and B) total number (#) of RES; C) and D) percentage (%) of RES in REDIportal; E) and F) percentage of RES in Alu regions. Different threshold values for the number of supporting reads were chosen.
